.tickets/open/t-18c2be32.md, before:

---
id: t-18c2be32
title: Acknowledge beads and ticket projects in README.md
status: open
deps: []
links: []
created: 2026-02-02T20:58:36.338702424Z
type: task
priority: 2
description: Add acknowledgments and references to beads CLI tool and ticket project in documentation
parent: t-1811dd60---

# Acknowledge beads and ticket projects in README.md

Add acknowledgments and references to beads CLI tool and ticket project in documentation

## Implementation Requirements

### 1. Research and Reference Projects
- **beads**: https://github.com/steveyegge/beads - CLI task tracking tool
- **ticket**: https://github.com/wedow/ticket - Another ticket management system
- Understand the relationship and differences between these projects and ticketr

### 2. Add Acknowledgments Section
Create an "Acknowledgments" or "Inspiration" section in README.md that:
- References beads CLI tool for task tracking concepts
- References ticket project for similar ticket management approaches
- Explains how these projects influenced ticketr's design
- Maintains professional tone and gives proper credit

### 3. Add Comparison Section
Add a section that compares ticketr with similar tools:
- **beads**: Task tracking focus, CLI-based approach
- **ticket**: Ticket management with different design philosophy
- **ticketr**: Our approach with dependency tracking and mono-repo support

### 4. Update Documentation
- Ensure references are added to both README.md and AGENTS.md
- Add appropriate links to the referenced projects
- Maintain consistency in documentation style

## Implementation Steps
1. Research beads and ticket projects to understand their features
2. Draft acknowledgments section for README.md
3. Create comparison section highlighting differences
4. Update AGENTS.md with relevant references
5. Review and refine language for clarity and professionalism

## Success Criteria
- [ ] README.md includes acknowledgments section
- [ ] beads CLI tool is properly referenced and credited
- [ ] ticket project is properly referenced and credited
- [ ] Comparison section clearly differentiates ticketr from similar tools
- [ ] AGENTS.md includes relevant references
- [ ] All links are correct and functional
- [ ] Documentation maintains professional tone

## Notes
This is important for:
- Giving credit to prior art and inspiration
- Helping users understand the landscape of similar tools
- Demonstrating good open source citizenship
- Providing context for ticketr's design decisions

## Related Tickets
- t-16849800: Enable cargo install from repository (documentation updates)
- t-9fdbbef: Migrate from plain nix to devbox (environment setup)
- t-1495eaf4: Migrate from Makefile to justfile (build system)

Commit message:

refactor(project) changing name from ticketr to tkr

.tickets/open/t-18c2be32.md, after:

---
id: t-18c2be32
title: Acknowledge beads and ticket projects in README.md
status: open
deps: []
links: []
created: 2026-02-02T20:58:36.338702424Z
type: task
priority: 2
description: Add acknowledgments and references to beads CLI tool and ticket project in documentation
parent: t-1811dd60---

# Acknowledge beads and ticket projects in README.md

Add acknowledgments and references to beads CLI tool and ticket project in documentation

## Implementation Requirements

### 1. Research and Reference Projects
- **beads**: https://github.com/steveyegge/beads - CLI task tracking tool
- **ticket**: https://github.com/wedow/ticket - Another ticket management system
- Understand the relationship and differences between these projects and tkr

### 2. Add Acknowledgments Section
Create an "Acknowledgments" or "Inspiration" section in README.md that:
- References beads CLI tool for task tracking concepts
- References ticket project for similar ticket management approaches
- Explains how these projects influenced tkr's design
- Maintains professional tone and gives proper credit

### 3. Add Comparison Section
Add a section that compares tkr with similar tools:
- **beads**: Task tracking focus, CLI-based approach
- **ticket**: Ticket management with different design philosophy
- **tkr**: Our approach with dependency tracking and mono-repo support

### 4. Update Documentation
- Ensure references are added to both README.md and AGENTS.md
- Add appropriate links to the referenced projects
- Maintain consistency in documentation style

## Implementation Steps
1. Research beads and ticket projects to understand their features
2. Draft acknowledgments section for README.md
3. Create comparison section highlighting differences
4. Update AGENTS.md with relevant references
5. Review and refine language for clarity and professionalism

## Success Criteria
- [ ] README.md includes acknowledgments section
- [ ] beads CLI tool is properly referenced and credited
- [ ] ticket project is properly referenced and credited
- [ ] Comparison section clearly differentiates tkr from similar tools
- [ ] AGENTS.md includes relevant references
- [ ] All links are correct and functional
- [ ] Documentation maintains professional tone

## Notes
This is important for:
- Giving credit to prior art and inspiration
- Helping users understand the landscape of similar tools
- Demonstrating good open source citizenship
- Providing context for tkr's design decisions

## Related Tickets
- t-16849800: Enable cargo install from repository (documentation updates)
- t-9fdbbef: Migrate from plain nix to devbox (environment setup)
- t-1495eaf4: Migrate from Makefile to justfile (build system)
